---
title: 'Hiring a postdoctoral researcher and a PhD student for Tübitak-funded project on LLM Privacy'
date: 2025-02-19
permalink: /posts/2025-02-19-hiring
tags:
  - hiring
  - funded_project
  - postdoc
  - phd
---

I am hiring! 

I am looking for a postdoctoral researcher and a PhD student with a background in NLP and/or HCI  to work on a TÜBİTAK funded project in Generative AI and Privacy. The project includes a series of quantitative and qualitative studies to understand user behaviour with Generative AI tools and develop tools to protect user privacy. 

**Project Overview:** This project is about protecting user privacy in generative AI tools. We aim to analyze user behavior with generative AI tools, identify privacy risks to users, devise protection strategies, and prototype open-source tools for users to protect their privacy while using generative AI tools effectively.

**Position Start Date**: May/June 2025

**Position Duration**: 2 years (with possible extension up to 3 years)

**Responsibilities:** As a researcher in the project, you will be responsible for (1) data collection from online sources and their analysis concerning privacy risks, (2) conducting interviews and subsequent qualitative analysis, (3) designing, implementing, and evaluating a prototype to protect the privacy of the generative AI users. As a member of my lab, you will be responsible for cultivating a helpful and supportive team environment. 

Postdoctoral Researcher Position
------
**Requirements:**
* A PhD in Computer Science/Engineering (or a related field)
* Background in Natural Language Processing
* Interest in Usable Privacy and Human-Computer Interaction
* Excellent track record of publications in top-tier journals and conferences (ACL, EMNLP, NeurIPS, FAccT, CHI,...)
* Excellent coding skills (Python strongly preferred)
* Experience with qualitative research or willingness to conduct qualitative research
* Ability to communicate research findings in a clear manner
* Demonstrated quality of teamwork
* (Optional) Experience in independent research and grant writing


PhD student
------
**Requirements:** 
* Experience with Natural Language Processing projects and tools
* Interest in Human-Computer Interaction and Usable Privacy
* Excellent coding skills (Python strongly preferred)
* Willingness to conduct qualitative research
* Demonstrated quality of research performance and teamwork


Application
------

**Deadline**: 7 April 2025

The interviews will be conducted on a rolling basis and the positions might be filled before the deadline.

**Contact**: dilara.kekulluoglu@sabanciuniv.edu

Please write [POSTDOC/PHD APPLICATION] in your email title and provide the following in the application email: 
* Cover letter about your research background, interests, and how they fit the requirements,
* CV, 
* 1 - 2 selected publications,
* Contact information of two references (to get in contact with if your application passes the first stage)

**Notes:**
* You do not have to be a student at the Sabancı University for the PhD position but I will expect you to come to the campus regularly for the project meetings.
* Sabancı University has dorm support options both for PhD students and postdoctoral researchers.

